	L2TP支持包括IP、ATM、帧中继、X.25 在内的多种网络。在IP网络中，L2TP协议
	使用注册端口 UDP 1701。[1]因此，在某种意义上，尽管L2TP协议的确是一个数
	据链路层协议，但在IP网络中，它又的确是一个会话层协议。
rfc3931:
	l2tp:layer two tunneling protocol.

	L2TP Control Connection Endpoint(LCCE)
	An L2TP node that exists at either end of an L2TP control connection.
	May also be referred to as an LAC or LNS,depending on whether tunnele-
	d frames are processed at the data link(LAC) or network layer(LNS).

	Data messages are used to encapsulate the L2 traffic being carried ov-
	er the L2TP session.Unlike control messages,data messages are not ret-
	ransmitted when packet loss occurs.

	L2TPv3 structure
	Tunneled Frame		L2TP Control Message
	L2TP Data Header	L2TP Control Header
	L2TP Data Channel	L2TP Control Channel
	   (unreliable)			(reliable)
	Packet-Switch Network(IP,FR,MPLS,etc.)

	Data memssages are passed over an unreliable data channel,encapsulated
	by an L2TP header,and sent over a Packet-Switched Network(PSN 分组交换
	网络)such as IP,UDP,Frame Relay,ATM,MPLS,etc.Control messages are sent
	over a reliable L2TP control channel,which operates over the same PSN.

	The necessary setup for tunneling a session with L2TP consists of  two
	steps:(1) Establishing the control connection,and (2)establishing a s-
	ession as triggered by an incoming call or outgoing call.An L2TP sess-	trigger:触发器
	ion MUST be established before L2TP can begin to forward session fram-
	es.Multiple sessions may be bound to a single control connection , and
	multiple control connections may exist between the same two LCCEs.

L2TP Control Message Header
	The T bit MUST be set to 1, indicating that this is a control message.	T位必须置1，表示是一个控制消息。

	The L and S bits MUST be set to 1,indicating that the Length field and	控制消息必须有长度和序号，所以两位必须置位
	sequence numbers are present.

	The x bits are reserved for future extensions.All reserved bits MUST 
	be set to 0 on outgoing messages and ignored on incoming messages.

	The Ver field indicates the version of the L2TP control message header
	described in this document.On sending, this field MUST be set to 3 for
	all messages(unless operating in an environment that includes L2TPv2[R
	FC2661] and/or L2F[RFC2341] as well,see Section 4.1 for details).

	The length field indicates the total length of the message in  octets,
	always calculated from the start of the control message header  itself
	(beginning with the T bit).

	Non-zero Control Connection IDs are selected and exchanged as Assigned
	Control Connection ID AVPs durin the creation of a control connection.

	The Session Header MUST provide a method of distinguishing traffic am-
	ong multiple L2TP data sessions and a method of distinguishing data m-
	essages from control messages.
	会话头必须提供一个能从多个L2TP数据会话中区分通信的方法，和一个区分是数
	据消息还是控制消息的方法。
	Each type of encapsulating PSN MUST define its own session header cle-
	arly identifying the format of the header and parameters necessary  to
	setup the session.Section 4.1 defines two session headers,one for tra-
	nsport over UDP and one for transport over IP.

	The L2-Specific Sublayer is an intermediary layer between the L2TP se-	intermediary:adj.中间人的,调解的.n:中间人
	ssion header and the start of the tunneled frame.It  contains  control
	fields that are used to facilitate the tunneling of each frame.The de-	facilitate:vt.促进，帮助
	fault L2-Specific Sublayer for L2TPv3 is defined in Section 4.6.

Control Conection Teardown:
	Control connection teardown may be initiated by either LCCE and is ac-
	complished by sending a single StopCCN control message.As part of  the
	reliable control message delivery mechanism,the recipient of a StopCCN	mechanism:n.机械，机构，结构，机理，技巧
	MUST send an ACK message to acknowledge recepit of the message and ma-
	intain enough control connection state to properly accept StopCCN ret-	properly:ad.适当地
	ransmissions over at least a full retransmission cycle(in case the ACK	retransmission:重发，重传，转发
	message is lost).The recommended time for a full retransmission  cycle
	is at least 31 seconds

	通过StopCCN 可以关闭控制连接，和所有与控制连接有关的会话。所以没有必要
	在关闭控制连接的时候，独立地关闭每个会话。				detect:vt.发觉，察觉，探测

Session Teardown:
	Session teardown may be initiated by either the LAC or LNS and is acc-
	omplished by sending a CDN control message.After the last  session  is 
	cleared,the control connection MAY be torn down as well (and typically
	is).

Protocol Operation:
	L2TP may operate over a variety of PSNs. There are two modes described 	L2TPv2 over other PSNs:RFC3070,RFC3355.
	for operation over IP(4.1.1) and L2TP over UDP(4.1.2).L2TPv3 implemen-
	tations MUST support L2TP over IP and SHOULD support L2TP over UDP for
	better NAT and firewall traversal,and for easier migration from L2TPv2	migration:n.移民，移动，【计】迁移。

Session ID
	A 32-bit field containing a non-zero identifier for a session.L2TP se-
	ssions are name by identifiers that have local significance only. That
	is ,the same logical will be given different Session IDs by  each  end 
	of the control connectoin is used for session establishment,Session I-
	Ds are selected and exchanged as Local Session ID AVPs during the cre-
	ation of a session.The session id alone provides the necesary  context 
	for all further processing,including the presence,size,and value of t-
	he Cookie,the type of L2-Specific Sublayer,and the type of payload be-
	ing tunneled.

L2TPv3 Control Message Header Over IP
	Note that the length field is still calculated from the  beginning  of 	L2TPv2 RFC2661;L2F RFC2341
	the control message header,beginning with the T bit.

	When operating directly over IP,L2TP packets lose the ability to  take
	advantage of the UDP checksum as a simple packet integrity.		intergrity:n.完整性

UDP Port Selection
	control connection:UDP:1701(destination address)
	The initiator of an L2TP control connection pick an  available source 
	UDP port(which may or may not be 1701) and sends to the desired dest-
	ination addres at port 1701.The recipent picks a free port on its own
	system(which may or may not be 1701)and sends its replay to the init-
	iator's UDP port and address,setting its own source port to the  free
	port it found.
	控制连接的发起者发起的把报文目的端口是1701，源端口任意选一个可获得端口
	（可能是也可能不是1701）。接收端在自己的系统上选择一个空闲的端口（可以
	是或者不是1701）发送响应到发起者的端口和地址，选择空闲端口作为自己的源
	端口。

	Either L2TP over UDP or L2TP over IP may be secured with IPsec RFC2401
	defines the recommended method for securing L2TPv2.L2TPv3 possesses i-
	dentical characteristics to IPsec as L2TPv2 when running over UDP  and
	implementations MUST follow the same recommendation.When operating ov-
	er IP directly,[RFC3193] still applies,though references to UDP source
	and destination ports.

	Note that IPv6 does not support "in-flight" fragmentation of data pac-
	kets.

4.1.4 IP Fragmentation Issues
	In summary,attempting to control the source MTU by communicating  with
	the originating host,forcing that an MTU be sufficently large  on  the	sufficently:ad.足够，充分。
	path between LCCE peers to tunnel a frame from any other interface wi-
	thout fragmentation,fragmenting IP packets before  encapsulation  with
	L2TP/IP,or fragmentation the resultant L2TP/IP packet between the tun-
	nel endpoints,are all valid methods for managing MTU mismatches.

4.2 Reliable Delivery of Control Messages
	The sequence number in the header of a received message is  considered 
	less than or equal to the last received number if its  value  lies  in 
	the range of the last received number and the preceding 32767  values,
	inclusive.For example,if the last received sequence number was 15,then
	messages with sequence number 0 through 15, as well  as 32784  through 
	65535,would be considered less than or equal.Such a message  woule  be	这里看不懂啊！！！！
	considered a duplicate of a message already received and ignored  from
	processing.

L2TPv2 L2TPv3
	L2TP消息可以分为控制消息和数据消息两种类型，控制消息用于隧道连接和会话
	连接的建立和维护，数据消息则用来承载用户的PPP 会话数据包。控制消息中的
	参数用AVP属性值对（Attribute Value Pair）来表示， 使得协议具有很好的扩
	展。在控制消息的传输中还应用了滑动窗口机制，以实现控制消息的重传和拥塞
	控制。L2TP数据消息的传输不采用重传机制，所以它无法保证传输的可靠性，但
	这一点可以通过上层协议如TCP等得到保证。
	L2TP协议的安全性依赖于:(1)PPP提供的认证，比如CHAP或者PAP认证(2)L2TPv2
	本身提供的隧道验证和AVP隐藏。
	在使用中，L2TPv2 存在很多安全问题：（1）隧道验证仅仅定义了对隧道终端实
	体的身份认证，而不是认证隧道中流过的每个报文，这样的隧道无法防止插入攻
	击和地址欺骗（2） 由于没有针对每个报文进行完整性校验，就有可能进行拒绝
	服务攻击（DOS），即发送一些假冒的控制信息，导致L2TPv2隧道或底层PPP连接
	的关闭。（3）虽然PPP报文的数据可以加密，但PPP 协议不支持密钥的自动生成
	和自动刷新，这样进行监听的攻击者就可能最终攻破密钥，从而得到所传的数据
	为了实现L2TP的安全性，现在多使用L2TPv2+IPSEC解决方案，但是由于IPSEC 在
	穿越NAT时有一定局限性，使得L2TP性能得到减弱。所以L2TP最好能独立于IPSEC
	实现隧道的自身保护机制。
L2TPV3的安全性：
	1. 将和PPP相关的AVP、以及包含在L2TP数据消息头部中的一些和PPP相关的域剥
	   离掉
	2. 将Session ID和Tunnel ID从以前的16bit变为了32bit；
	3. 认证整个控制消息，而不是以前的只认证消息的一部分
	另外L2TPv3可在隧道中转发PPP、HDLC、帧中继和以太网等第二层帧，而 L2TPv2
	只能通过隧道转发PPP帧。
================================= l2tp v2 ====================================
L2TP Header Format:
	l2tp packets for the control channel and data channedl share a  common	控制隧道和数据隧道使用同一个头格式
	header format.In each case where a field is optional, its  space  does	如果一个域是可选的
	not exist in the message if the field is marked not present. Note that	当它被标记是不存在的，她的空间也不存在
	while optional on data messages,the length,ns,and nr fields marked  as 	控制消息中len,ns,nr域是肯定存在的。
	optional below,are required to be present on all control messages.

	0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
	T L x x S x O P x x x x|  Ver  |	Length(opt)		|
		Tunnel ID	       |	Session ID		|
		Ns (opt)	       |	Nr (opt)		|
		Offset Size(opt)       |	Offset pad... (opt)	|

	T: indicates the type of message.It is set to 0 for a data message and
	   1 for a control message.
	L: if the Length bit is 1,the length field is present.This bit MUST be
	   set to 1 for control messages.
	S: If the Sequence bit is set to 1 the Ns and Nr fields are present.T-
	   he S bit MUST be set to 1 for control messages.
	O: if the offset bit is 1,the offset size field is  present. the O bit
   	   MUST be set to 0 (zero) for control messages.
	P: if the Priority bit is 1,this data message should receive preferen-
	   tial treatment in its local queuing and transmission. This  feature
	   is only for use with data messages.The P bit MUST be set to  0  for 
	   all control messages.
	Ver: MUST be 2.								L2F RFC2341
	Length: The length field indicates the total length of the message  in
		octets.								长度单位八位元
	Tunnel ID: indicates the identifier for the control connection.L2TP t-
		   unnels are named by identifiers that have local significan-	像GTP的teid一样，本端给对端分配相应的tunnel id。
		   ce only.That is,the same logical will  be  given  different 	Session ID,在ICRQ报文中，于此类似。
		   Session IDs by each end of the tunnel.Tunnel ID in each me-
		   ssage is that of the intended recipient,not the sender.Tun-
		   nel IDs are selected and exchanged as Assigned Tunnel ID A-
		   VPs during the creation of a tunnel.

AVP Format:
	0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
	M H| rsvd  | Length	       |	Vendor ID		|
	Atrribute Type		       |	Atrribute Value...	[[|]]
		until Length is reached....

	Mandatory(M) bit:如果置位的话，在Session出现的没有识别的消息，这个会话
	就要终止，如果是在Tunnel中出现的话，真个隧道就要终止。如果M bit 没有置
	位，不能识别的报文就要被忽略。

	Hidden(H)bit:隐藏信息。

	Length:AVP的整个长度 = 6 + Atrribute Value, 6 - 1023.

	Vendor ID:

H bit:
	If the H bit is set in any AVP(s) in a given control message, a Random
	Vector AVP must also be present in the message and MUST precede the f-	precede:vt.vi.在...之前，在前面
	irst AVP having an H bit of 1.
	如果Hbit在一个AVP中置位了，那么一个Randon Vector AVP也必须出现在消息中
	而且在第一个H置位的AVP前面。

	隐藏要经过几步，首先除去原始AVP的长度和值域，然后转码成如下：
	Length of Original Value	| Original Atrribute Value
						Padding...
	新的AVP：
		6 + 	4 + 				2 + 		12 = 24
		head	Attribute Value length		size of length  padding
	计算MD5 hash值：
	1. AVP的属性号 2 octet		AV
	2. 共享密钥			S
	3. 任意一个随机数		RV
	随机数在Random Vector AVP中传递，必须在第一个hidden AVP 的前面，如果想
	使用多个随机数，那么在第一次使用那个那随机数的hidden AVP前面要放置一个
	randon vector AVP.

	然后MD5值和子格式的前16octet的段进行异或。如果小于16octet在异或前会进行
	转码, 但是只有子格式中的octets被修改，AVP的长度不做调整。

	如果子格式长于16octets，则生成第二个MD5值，使用共享密钥，和第一个异或值
	把值域拆开成16-octet长度的块p1,p2,...
		b1 = MD5(AV + S + RV)	c(1) = p1 xor b1
		b2 = MD5(S + c(1))	c(2) = p2 xor b2
		.
		bi = MD5(S + c(i-1))	c(i) = pi xor bi
